---
layout: page
title: Experiments
permalink: /experiments/intro/
nav_order: 1
start: true
categories: [Experiments, Content, Components]
tags: [pdf, docx, summary, office]
---

# Summary
We are working on a series of interesting features that will make your life much easier when creating content. We consider those features as experiments. You are encouraged to use them and to send us your feedback. The experiments will allow you to automate some tasks and also to use a different type of content such as PDF and DOCX files.

We did our best to optimise the build time when using experiments, but it may be possible, for some feature, to have a longer build time. For this reason, please follow the instructions and do not attempt to build in production a site when experiments are active (unless you fully control the production environment and the deployment pipeline is not subject to consumption charges). Protection mechanisms are in place to prevent this situation to happen, but, again, be careful when building the site if you use experiments.

{% include elements/alert.html class="warning" content="We cannot guarantee 100% the quality of the content generated by experiments as this content depends on various parameters (such as: the model used, the language, the correct spelling and grammar, the structure of inputs). For this reason we advice to review and do corrections as needed before publishing the result on your site" %}

# Build resources
Another important aspect is that you may need relevant resources when building a site containing active experiments. We advice to not use them if you are building the site on computers with low memory and processing power. We tested on Apple M4 Pro with 14 CPU cores, 20 GPU cores and 24GB memory and we got decent performance. Anything below these may lead to longer building time, althouth we did our best to get the most out from the processing power (CPU/GPU and memory). If you build the site on dedicated servers (but not subject to consumption charges), the results can be significantly better.

# General rules
{% include elements/alert.html class="danger" content="Please observe the general instructions and limitations and the ones from each experiment and respect them to avoid potential unexpected behaviour." title="HEADS UP!!!" %}

{% include elements/alert.html class="danger" content="None of the experiments will be active when building in production as the build time can be quite long. However, the experiments content generated when building in dev environment and deployed in production will be available." %}

{% include elements/alert.html class="warning" content="We do not advice to use experiments if you don't have enough processing power to build the site." title="Resources" %}

# Summarise PDF
This component will summarise a given pdf file and will save the summary in the same folder as the source PDF.

{% include elements/link-btn.html type="warning" outline="false" text="PDF Summary" href="/experiments/pdf-summary/" newTab="true" %}

# Summarise DOCX
This component will summarise a given word (docx) file and will save the summary in the same folder as the source docx.

{% include elements/link-btn.html type="warning" outline="false" text="DOCX Summary" href="/experiments/docx-summary/" newTab="true" %}